## 给数据库创建权限

### 创建test数据库

	use test

### 在数据库中创建用户

	db.createUser({ 
		user: "zhangsan", 
		pwd: "zhangsanPwd", 
		roles: [{ 
			role: "dbOwner", 
			db: "test" 
		}] 
	})

role参数设置

1. read（Database User Roles）

		changeStream
		collStats
		dbHash
		dbStats
		find
		killCursors
		listIndexes
		listCollections

2. readWrite（Database User Roles）

		collStats
		convertToCapped
		createCollection
		dbHash
		dbStats
		dropCollection
		createIndex
		dropIndex
		find
		insert
		killCursors
		listIndexes
		listCollections
		remove
		renameCollectionSameDB
		update

3. dbAdmin(Database Administration Roles)

		collStats
		dbHash
		dbStats
		find
		killCursors
		listIndexes
		listCollections
		dropCollection and createCollection on system.profile only

		bypassDocumentValidation
		collMod
		collStats
		compact
		convertToCapped
		createCollection
		createIndex
		dbStats
		dropCollection
		dropDatabase
		dropIndex
		enableProfiler
		reIndex
		renameCollectionSameDB
		repairDatabase
		storageDetails
		validate

4. dbOwner(Database Administration Roles)

	The database owner can perform any administrative action on the database. This role combines the privileges granted by the readWrite, dbAdmin and userAdmin roles.

5. userAdmin(Database Administration Roles)

	Provides the ability to create and modify roles and users on the current database. Since the userAdmin role allows users to grant any privilege to any user, including themselves, the role also indirectly provides superuser access to either the database or, if scoped to the admin database, the cluster.

		changeCustomData
		changePassword
		createRole
		createUser
		dropRole
		dropUser
		grantRole
		revokeRole
		setAuthenticationRestriction
		viewRole
		viewUser

6. clusterAdmin(Cluster Administration Roles)

	Provides the greatest cluster-management access. This role combines the privileges granted by the clusterManager, clusterMonitor, and hostManager roles. Additionally, the role provides the dropDatabase action.

7. clusterManager(Cluster Administration Roles)

	Provides management and monitoring actions on the cluster. A user with this role can access the config and local databases, which are used in sharding and replication, respectively.

		addShard
		appendOplogNote
		applicationMessage
		cleanupOrphaned
		flushRouterConfig
		listSessions (New in version 3.6)
		listShards
		removeShard
		replSetConfigure
		replSetGetConfig
		replSetGetStatus
		replSetStateChange
		resync
	
	Provides the following actions on all databases in the cluster:

		enableSharding
		moveChunk
		splitChunk
		splitVector